Many of you have probably already used some
kind of 3D design application, like blender
or fusion 360. The software i'm going to show you
now, OpenSCAD a free and open software, is quite
different to these kind of applications. Because
this is not built to create great renderings of
3D objects, but in contrast, this one is built to
allow you to generate 3D objects through code. You
can write text to generate 3D objects. And this
is really nice to create reusable code to generate
objects. And the objects that we are generating
here they are really well constructed 3D objects
that we can for example use in fabrication
processes like 3D printing or CNC machines.
So how do we do it in this application. We have on
the left side an editor and on the right side we
get a preview of the 3D objects we construct.
And the coding is very very similar to how we
developed our objects in p5.js. I will show you
this application now and then we will switch to
OpenJSCAD a JS port of the OpenSCAD language. You
have to keep in mind if you're creating really
really really complex 3D objects, you might
want to switch to the OpenSCAD application,
because it's a lot more powerful, because the
JavaScript variant relies on the performance
of your browser and is thereby a little bit
limited to how complex your objects can become.
But for now, we will use the JavaScript version.
As we can use our same development environment
and we don't need to learn anything new.
I will just show you a very quick example
of how to use the OpenSCAD software. Here in
the code editor we can now create objects. For
example i could create a simple square. Click on
the preview button and immediately get a preview
of a square. And now similar to how we use p5.js
we can chain different commands to one another,
to modify the objects we create. For example we
could use a translate function to move our object,
similar to how we did it in p5.js. You can now see
how it's moving around in the coordinate system.
We could use an extrude
function, to extrude our object.
Let's say we want to extrude it to the
height 3, get a preview and see now,
how it's being extruded in one direction. Or give
it a different color by using the color command.
It's actually quite similar from the command
structure to p5.js. The only difference is
that we're kind of, at least from my
perspective, we're chaining commands in
reverse. We start at the end, we have the actual
object and then we're going kind of backwards,
applying different other commands to the
initial object that we created. We have
the square, then we translate it, then we
extrude it and then we give it a color,
which is kind of the other way around
of how you would might think about it.